[Zen2] Update documentation for Zen2 (#34714)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/modules/discovery/discovery.asciidoc

[[modules-discovery-hosts-providers]]
=== Discovery

The cluster formation module uses a list of _seed_ nodes in order to start off
the discovery process. When you start an Elasticsearch node, or when a node

> believes the master node to have failed, that node tries to connect to each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
believes the master node failed, that node tries to connect to each
```

> seed node in its list, and once connected the two nodes will repeatedly share

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seed node in its list. Once connected, the two nodes will repeatedly share
```

information about the other known master-eligible nodes in the cluster in order
to build a complete picture of the cluster.  By default the cluster formation
module offers two hosts providers to configure the list of seed nodes: a
_settings_-based and a _file_-based hosts provider. It can be extended to
support cloud environments and other forms of hosts providers via
{plugins}/discovery.html[discovery plugins]. Hosts providers are configured
using the `discovery.zen.hosts_provider` setting, which defaults to the
_settings_-based hosts provider. Multiple hosts providers can be specified as a
list.

[float]
[[settings-based-hosts-provider]]
===== Settings-based hosts provider

> The settings-based hosts provider use a node setting to configure a static list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The settings-based hosts provider uses a node setting to configure a static list
```

of hosts to use as seed nodes. These hosts can be specified as hostnames or IP
addresses; hosts specified as hostnames are resolved to IP addresses during each
round of discovery. Note that if you are in an environment where DNS resolutions
vary with time, you might need to adjust your <<networkaddress-cache-ttl,JVM
security settings>>.

> The list of hosts is set using the `discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts` static

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list of hosts is set using the <<unicast.hosts,`discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts`>> static
```

Reviewer: I think it's better to link to a reference page with all the lower-level details than cover it here.

> setting.  This is either an array of hosts or a comma-delimited string. Each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
setting.  For example:
```

> value should be in the form of `host:port` or `host` (where `port` defaults to

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> the setting `transport.profiles.default.port` falling back to `transport.port`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> if not set). Note that IPv6 hosts must be bracketed. The default for this

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> setting is `127.0.0.1, [::1]`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Unicast discovery uses the <<modules-transport,transport>> module to perform the
discovery.

[float]
[[file-based-hosts-provider]]
===== File-based hosts provider

The file-based hosts provider configures a list of hosts via an external file.
Elasticsearch reloads this file when it changes, so that the list of seed nodes
can change dynamically without needing to restart each node. For example, this
gives a convenient mechanism for an Elasticsearch instance that is run in a
Docker container to be dynamically supplied with a list of IP addresses to
connect to when those IP addresses may not be known at node startup.

To enable file-based discovery, configure the `file` hosts provider as follows:

[source,txt]
----------------------------------------------------------------
discovery.zen.hosts_provider: file
----------------------------------------------------------------

Then create a file at `$ES_PATH_CONF/unicast_hosts.txt` in the format described
below. Any time a change is made to the `unicast_hosts.txt` file the new changes
will be picked up by Elasticsearch and the new hosts list will be used.

Note that the file-based discovery plugin augments the unicast hosts list in

> `elasticsearch.yml`: if there are valid unicast host entries in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`elasticsearch.yml`. If there are valid unicast host entries in
```

> `discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts` then they will be used in addition to those

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts`, they are used in addition to those
```

The `discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts.resolve_timeout` setting also applies to
DNS lookups for nodes specified by address via file-based discovery. This is
specified as a <<time-units, time unit>> and defaults to 5s.

The format of the file is to specify one node entry per line.  Each node entry
consists of the host (host name or IP address) and an optional transport port
number.  If the port number is specified, is must come immediately after the
host (on the same line) separated by a `:`.  If the port number is not
specified, a default value of 9300 is used.

For example, this is an example of `unicast_hosts.txt` for a cluster with four
nodes that participate in unicast discovery, some of which are not running on
the default port:

[source,txt]
----------------------------------------------------------------
10.10.10.5
10.10.10.6:9305
10.10.10.5:10005
# an IPv6 address
[2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334]:9301
----------------------------------------------------------------

Host names are allowed instead of IP addresses (similar to
`discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts`), and IPv6 addresses must be specified in
brackets with the port coming after the brackets.

> It is also possible to add comments to this file. All comments must appear on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also add comments to this file. All comments must appear on
```

their lines starting with `#` (i.e. comments cannot start in the middle of a
line).

[float]
[[ec2-hosts-provider]]
===== EC2 hosts provider

The {plugins}/discovery-ec2.html[EC2 discovery plugin] adds a hosts provider
that uses the https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-java[AWS API] to find a list of
seed nodes.

[float]
[[azure-classic-hosts-provider]]
===== Azure Classic hosts provider

The {plugins}/discovery-azure-classic.html[Azure Classic discovery plugin] adds
a hosts provider that uses the Azure Classic API find a list of seed nodes.

[float]
[[gce-hosts-provider]]
===== Google Compute Engine hosts provider

The {plugins}/discovery-gce.html[GCE discovery plugin] adds a hosts provider
that uses the GCE API find a list of seed nodes.

[float]

> ==== Discovery settings

Reviewer: Does this replace https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/discovery-settings.html ? If not, there should be links between the two.

Author: Not really, the document you linked is under "important settings" and contains the two important settings that all users will need to interact with. The settings here should almost always be left with their default values.
